---
title: POPL and CoqPL 2016
---

[POPL 2016][1] was just held a few weeks ago in Saint Petersburg,
Florida, bringing together many researchers in programming languages
to learn about the latest developments in the field. As usual, it was
an exciting event for the Coq community. Early in the week, Robert
Rand and I led an [introductory Coq tutorial][2]. Later, there was a
special meeting to announce [DeepSpec][3], an ambitious research
effort to develop and integrate several verified software components,
many of which use Coq. Near the end, Xavier Leroy received an award
for the most influential POPL paper of 2006, for _Formal Verification
of a Compiler Back-end_, where he introduced the
[CompCert verified C compiler][4].

Besides all these events, this year also featured the second edition
of the [CoqPL][5] workshop. Its main attraction may have been the
release of the long-awaited [Coq 8.5][6]. Matthieu Sozeau and Maxime
Dénès gave a detailed presentation of its main new features, which
include asynchronous proof checking and editing, universe
polymorphism, and a new tactic engine. Congratulations to the Coq team
for the great work!

Another fun talk was by Clément Pit-Claudel, where he announced
[company-coq][7], a set of Proof General extensions brings many nice
editing features for Coq code in Emacs. These include: automatically
prettifying code (for instance, replacing `forall` by `∀`),
auto-completion, code folding, and improved error messages, among many
others. If you work with Coq under Emacs, you should definitely give
it a try!

  [1]: http://conf.researchr.org/home/POPL-2016
  [2]: http://conf.researchr.org/event/POPL-2016/popl-2016-tutorials-programs-and-proofs-in-the-coq-proof-assistant
  [3]: http://deepspec.org
  [4]: http://compcert.inria.fr
  [5]: http://conf.researchr.org/home/CoqPL-2016
  [6]: https://coq.inria.fr/news/128.html
  [7]: https://github.com/cpitclaudel/company-coq
